h2. The LaunchPad Lab Starter App (forked from Rails Apps Composer)

This is a customized Ruby on Rails application generator using the best practices and processes of LaunchPad Lab.

<pre>
Gems:
- Deploy: heroku
- Database: pg
- Web Server: thin
- Debug: exception_notification
- Test: rspec_rails, factory_girl_rails, faker, capybara, launchy, database_cleaner
- Misc: quiet_assets
- CSS: bootstrap_sass
- Bundle install gems

Controllers:
- Creates pages controller with default home action

Routes:
- Creates route for home page

Views:
- Remove index.html from public folder
- Create home template

Database:
- Configures database.yml adapters
- Run rake tasks: create and migrate

Application Config:
- Configures test framework on MVC component creation
- Run rspec install script
- Set assets initialize on precompile to false

CSS:
- Change file extension to application.css.scss
- Delete comments
- Import bootstrap styling

Git:
- Create git repo and first commit
- Push to remote GitHub repo

Heroku:
- Create heroku repo with name
- Push to repo
- Run migrations
- Add default collaborators
- Add-ons: New Relic, PG Backup

</pre>

<pre>
$ rails_apps_composer list

controllers    # Add controllers needed for starter apps.
core           # Select all core recipes.
email          # Configure email accounts.
example        # Example of a recipe.
extras         # Various extras.
frontend       # Install a front-end framework for HTML5 and CSS.
gems           # Add the gems your application needs.
git            # Initialize git for your application.
init           # Set up and initialize database.
models         # Add models needed for starter apps.
railsapps      # Install RailsApps example applications.
readme         # Build a README file for your application.
routes         # Add routes needed for starter apps.
setup          # Make choices for your application.
testing        # Add testing framework.
views          # Add views needed for starter apps.
</pre>

h3. Generate an Application Interactively

You'll be prompted for recipes and gems:

<pre>
$ rails_apps_composer new myapp

h3. Generate an Application from Defaults

Use a defaults file for recipes, preferences, and extra gems so you don't have to provide them interactively. Then generate an application using the @-d@ flag:

<pre>
$ rails_apps_composer new myapp -d my_defaults.yaml
</pre>

Use the @my_defaults.yaml@ file to specify a list of recipes, preferences, and extra gems. You can use any name (and file extension) for the file. See the "Defaults File":http://railsapps.github.com/tutorial-rails-apps-composer.html#Defaults section in the Guide concerning the format of the defaults file.

Use the "quiet flag" @-q@ if you want to skip all prompts:

<pre>
$ rails_apps_composer new myapp -q -d my_defaults.yaml
</pre>


Copyright © 2013 LaunchPad Lab

http://launchpadlab.com